"the plan™" (currently the plan has mainly been written for the space background)
this is the plan for the portfolio style and look.
some basic info: everything except text is pixel art, art, ui elements, almost everything. some of these images are rather small, so they use 9 slice scaling or some scaling method, but all art must use integers for scale

style
the style for this portfolio is what i can only describe as "space station", many of the assets are meant to make it feel like the portfolio is on a space station.
a really important part of the portfolio is the space background. this background would be "generated" in real time from "space" images. it would be layered and use a parallax effect.
parallax layers
1. base layer (some stars but mostly black, would not move)
2. star layer (more stars, would move slowly)
3. far layer (a layer which randomly uses some far assets nebulae, black holes etc. would move a bit faster than the star layer)
4. far layer 2 (secondary far layer, just for the sake of possible expansion, would probably not be in use)
5. medium layer (the layer with the most possible things. space stations, asteroids, easter eggs etc. moves faster than the far layer)
6 medium layer 2 (the same as the medium layer but a bit faster)
7. close layer (assets here would move fast)

space background implimentation:
the base layer would be made of 128x128 images tiled to fill the background (on a 1920x1080 monitor it would be 15 tiles wide and ~8 tiles tall, but for borders it would generate a 16x9 background)
the star layer would work the same but move faster for the parallax effect and use its own assets.
the next layers differ from this greatly
far, medium, close layer assets would be placed "randomly" on the layer, but each layer has a maximum amount of assets on screen at a time.
apart from all this the space background would use a "traditional" parallax setup, the direction of movement will be random each time the page is loaded

on top of all the space background would be everything else, it is just the background

timeline
1. planning and portfolio base (we are here)
2. background (this is next)
3. "foreground" (ui elements above the space background, header, footer as examples)
4. effects
5. functionality
6. polishing